Personal Finance Management Application - User Manual
Welcome to the Personal Finance Management Application! This guide will help you install, set up, and use the application to manage your finances effectively.

Table of Contents
Getting Started
Installation Instructions
Features Overview
Using the Application
Registration
Login
Adding Transactions
Updating Transactions
Deleting Transactions
Setting Budgets
Generating Reports
Backup and Restore
Error Handling and Troubleshooting
Getting Started
The Personal Finance Management Application is a command-line tool designed to:

Track income and expenses.
Categorize transactions (e.g., Food, Rent, Salary).
Set and monitor budgets.
Generate financial reports.
Back up and restore data.
Installation Instructions
Prerequisites
Install Python 3.8+ from python.org.
Ensure pip is installed for package management.
Install SQLite (pre-installed with Python).
Steps
Download the application code (ensure all Python files and database scripts are in the same folder).
Open a terminal/command prompt.
Navigate to the application directory using cd commands.
Install required dependencies:
bash
Copy code
pip install -r requirements.txt
Run the application:
bash
Copy code
python main.py
Features Overview
User Registration and Login: Secure access with unique usernames and passwords.
Transaction Management: Add, update, delete, and categorize income and expenses.
Budgeting: Set monthly budgets and get alerts when limits are exceeded.
Financial Reports: Generate monthly and yearly summaries.
Backup and Restore: Safeguard and recover your financial data.
Using the Application
Registration
Select the Register option.
Enter a unique username and password.
If successful, you'll see:
bash
Copy code
Registration successful! Please log in.
Login
Select the Login option.
Enter your registered username and password.
If authenticated, you'll see:
css
Copy code
Welcome, [Your Username]!
Adding Transactions
Choose Add Transaction from the menu.
Enter the following details:
Type: Income or Expense.
Amount: e.g., 500.
Category: e.g., Food, Rent, Salary.
Date: Format YYYY-MM-DD.
Confirm to save the transaction.
Updating Transactions
Select Update Transaction.
Choose the transaction to update (by ID or other filters).
Modify the fields as required.
Save changes.
Deleting Transactions
Select Delete Transaction.
Enter the ID of the transaction to delete.
Confirm the deletion.
Setting Budgets
Choose Set Budget from the menu.
Enter the category, monthly budget amount, and the applicable month.
If the budget is exceeded during the month, you'll see an alert:
vbnet
Copy code
Alert! You've exceeded your budget for [Category].
Generating Reports
Select Generate Report from the menu.
Choose Monthly or Yearly reports.
Enter the date range (for monthly: YYYY-MM, for yearly: YYYY).
View a summary showing:
Total Income
Total Expenses
Savings
Backup and Restore
Backup
Select Backup Data.
Specify the location to save the backup.
Confirm, and the database file is copied to the specified location.
Restore
Select Restore Data.
Provide the path to the backup file.
Confirm, and the data will be restored.
Error Handling and Troubleshooting
Error	Solution
"Username already exists"	Use a unique username during registration.
"Invalid login credentials"	Double-check your username and password. Reset if needed.
"No transactions found"	Ensure you’ve added transactions before attempting to view or update them.
"Exceeding budget alert"	Review your spending in the specified category and adjust the budget if necessary.
Database errors (e.g., "No table")	Ensure the database file is in the correct folder and initialized properly using setup scripts.
Backup/Restore issues	Verify the backup file path and ensure you have write permissions for the target directory.
Contact Support
If you encounter issues not listed above, feel free to contact the developer at boorlav23@gmail.com
